Agulu Crocodile Lake is located along Awka road in Agulu, Anaocha Local Government Area of the state. A potential tourist site, it is home to an estimated three hundred crocodiles and water turtles. Fishing is not allowed on the lake. As the crocodiles are considered sacred animals, they cannot be killed. Legend says that these crocodiles were instrumental in delivering the town from enemy soldiers during the Nigerian civil war. It is believed that these sacred crocodiles and turtles transformed themselves into beautiful ladies and lured the soldiers unawares into the lake, where they disappeared without trace. At noon the crocodiles and the turtles appear at the banks of the lake to take in sunlight.
Ogbunike Caves, listed by UNESCO as a World Heritage Site, is one of the most visited tourist sites in Anambra State. It is classified as a Sandstone cave (Lateritic sandstones of Campanian-Miocene age). It has very scenic vegetation with an attractive waterfall. It is situated in the Ogba hills Ogbunike, across the Ugwu-Aga Escarpment Umunya by the Enugu/Onitsha Expressway, and lies in the coordinates of N06 11 11 and E06 54 21.
Igbo Ukwu Museum: Igbo Ukwu is an ancient town known for its astonishing metalcrafts; it continues to attract tourists to see its bronze artifacts. First noticed in 1938, the bronzes were later excavated by Thurstan Shaw (an English archaeologist). They have been dated to the 9th century, and are of high value and historic relevance.
Uzu-Oka: Awka is historically known for the great metal foundry, Uzu Craftmanship. Imo-Awka is an annual festival 
Other Anambra tourism potentials and cultural festivals include:
    Imo-Awka Festival of Awka. the biggest tourist show in Anambra; this is held annually starting in June–July.
    Ijele Masquerade- listed in the UNESCO Archives as an Intangible Cultural element. The Ijele dance festival is home to the 'Olus' of the Omambala area: But actually originated from Umueri, other towns in includes Anaku, Omor, Nsugbe, Aguleri, Umueri, Awkuzu, Nteje, Ogbunike, Nkwelle-Ezunaka, Umunya, etc. But the origin of Ijele can be traced to Umueri community.
Many towns celebrate the New Yam Festival, held after yam cultivation each July.
    Oke-ebo Umueri festival
    Otite, Anam New Yam Festival.
    Nzurani Anam Festival
    Achukwu Masquerade of Ekwulobia.
    Nwafor Festival at Ogidi and Ogbunike.
    Ekwulobia New Yam Festival.
    Omaba Yearly New-Yam Festival.
    Aguluzigbo New-Yam Festival
    Nnobi Afia oru festival
    Ozubulu New-yam festival
    Umueri New-yam festival
    Ozoebunu masquerade of Ozubulu
    Okija New-Yam Festival
    Mmanwu Okija Masquerade Dance
    Ihiala New -Yam Festival
    Igu Aro festival at Mmanoma Umueri
    Nanka New -Yam Festival.
There are a variety of other traditional festivals and masquerades:
    Manwu Ihiala Masquerade Dance
    Ajana-Ukwu and Igu aro festivals at Aguleri.
    Akwuneche enyi masquerade of Omambala area: Anaku, Igbakwu, Aguleri, Umuleri, Awkuzu, Umunya, Owelle- Olumbanasa etc.
    Izaga masquerade of Omambala area: Anaku, Igbakwu, Aguleri, Umuleri, Awkuzu, Umunya, etc.
    Abele masquerade of Omambala area: Anaku, Igbakwu, Aguleri, Umueri, Awkuzu, Umunya, etc.
    Obele Masquerade of Owelle -Olumbanasa.
    Afia olu Festival in Nnewi.
    Ufala mmuo festival at Oba
    Ofala Eze of Owelle -Olumbanasa.
    Amanwulu and ozo Festivals at Aguleri, Anaku.
    Olili Obibia Eri (Eri Festival) in Enugwu Aguleri attracts thousands of visitors home and abroad annually.
    Uzoiyi Festival Umuoji attracts thousands of visitors annually.
    Ofala (Ovala) Festival commemorates the Kingship (Eze) and is celebrated by various towns. It was popularised by Onitsha town.
    Igu-Aro is the major kingship festival among the Umueri, Anaku and Aguleri.
    Nkpokiti Dance, Umunze is known for fantastic acrobatic performances.
    Obo Ofor Festival in Uga, Aguata local government area.
    Ayaka masquerade at Umuatuolu Umueri
    Nkwor Festival in Uga, Aguata local government area.
    Uku, an annual masquerade festival in Amanasaa Umuchu, Aguata local government area.
    Mkpluede Festival Isuaniocha
    ito-ogbo -80th birthday celebration by age grades [of obosi, idemili local government]
Other attractions include the following geographic landmarks and cultural institutions:
    The River Niger at Onitsha and Asaba, with the famous Niger bridge, is the eastern gateway linking the South East with the Niger Delta and Western Nigeria.
    Agbanagbo Ezu-na-Omambala (Confluence of Ezu and Omabala rivers) at Aguleri
    Isi Ubi stone stream Umu-Opu, Umuatuolu Umueri
    Obu Gad at Enugwu Aguleri.
    Ini ERI (Eri Grave) at Aguleri
    Ini Iguedo (Iguedo Grave) at Nando.
    Odinani Museum at Nri.
    Dabawu ancestral abode of Eri at Ugume Umueri
    Agwuve Trinity Tree at Enugwu Aguleri
    Rogeny Tourist Village at Oba (a stadium that is equipped with recreational activities including a swimming pool, zoo, shrine, soccer stadium, etc./